# guessing-game
A simple guessing game in which the user must guess a number between 1 and 100.

     import java.util.Scanner;
     public class HiLowGame {
          public static void main(String[] args ) {
          /**In this code, the user will interact with the program in order to play a guessing game.
          * To achieve this, it will use Math.random(), a while loop, and the Scanner for user input.
          */
          Scanner sc = new Scanner(System.in);
          //explain the rules of the game:
          System.out.println("Welcome to the hi-lo game! In this game, you'll simply be trying to guess the number" +
                " I'm thinking of, between 0 and 100. \nIf your guess is too high or too low, I'll let you know. " +
                "\nWhen you guess correctly, I'll let you know how many guesses it took. \nLet's play! " +
                "Guess a number between 0 and 100:");

          //Declare variables for the correct guess as randomly generated by the computer, and a variable for # of guesses:
          int count = 1;
          int correctGuess = (int) (1 + Math.random() * 100);

          //allow for user input through a guess variable:
          int guess = sc.nextInt();

          //introduce the while loop for if the user's guess is wrong:
          while (guess != correctGuess) {
              if (guess < 1 || guess > 100) {
                  System.out.println("Invalid response. Please try again: ");
                  guess = sc.nextInt();
              }

              else if (guess > correctGuess) {
                  System.out.println("Too high! Try a lower number.");
                  guess = sc.nextInt();
              }
              else {
                  System.out.println("Too low! Try a higher number.");
                  guess = sc.nextInt();
              }
              //add to the variable count with every guess from the user:
              count++;
          }

          //if the user is correct, print a statement saying so and the amount of guesses:
          System.out.println("Nice job! You guessed correctly after " + count + " guesses!");

          }
      }
